Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE: Come on. guys!
Come in!
Good morning!
(GANTRY ONLOOKERS CHEER)
ANDY: Yeah!
Come on. Bella. Hannah. Pat!
LYDIA: I can't stop looking
at this wall.
It's full of the judges'
photographs
at different ages.
doing different things.
I can't for the life of me
think what this could be.
Good morning. Welcome back
to the MasterChef kitchen.
It is never easy to wear
a black apron.
You must focus today and deliver
your best performance.
BELLA: I am feeling so nervous.
A 1-in-6 chance of going home
is not great.
It's the highest
I've had so far.
But I've got so much more to
show the judges.
so I'm going to give it my all.
All week. we've been asking you
to share your family faves.
So. it's only fair
that today we share ours.
The photos over there
represent our family traditions.
and family traditions
often start with food.
Mum and Dad were schoolteachers.
so we were lucky that
every single school holiday.
myself. my two sisters. Mum
and Dad. we'd go up the coast.
Get the rods. and the whole
family would go down and fish.
And then we would cook
what we caught.
Flour into a pan. it'd come out
pretty burnt. pretty crappy.
but it was the fact that
the whole family was just
picking with our hands.
And eating something
that we'd spent time
to catch that morning.
It's amazing that it doesn't
have to be extravagant
for it to really mean something.
So. in my family.
cakes are a very big deal.
(LAUGHS)
My mum was the family
cake maker.
and all my weekends were spent
sitting on the dining table.
perched. like. watching her make
sponges and decorating cakes.
So many memories of me
sitting in the back seat.
and Mum screeching at my dad
to stop driving so fast
because she's nursing
some giant cake
to take to. like.
an uncle's birthday.
Those moments watching Mum
make a cake were so formative
for me understanding food.
what it meant to use my hands.
as well.
The love of doing that
and creating something
beautiful out of nothing.
Poh's picture with loads of
cakes. with her family.
it's really good to see her
in her element.
It's almost like a little window
in their real lives.
and it's actually
pretty special.
We have an abundance of
food traditions in my family.
It's honestly hard to
narrow them down.
I think being Jewish.
we've never been
super religious.
but what we've always been
really into is the tradition.
We spent every Friday night
together as a family.
We'd go out for Sunday brunch.
We'd do Pesach. or Passover.
every year with
the extended family.
And I feel so lucky that
I've had this my entire life.
We always sat around a table
every meal.
didn't matter what it was.
and all focus was on
eating together.
And it's not necessarily
about the food.
it's about that togetherness.
And that's
a very powerful thing.
POH: Yeah.
For me. obviously. family
traditions are fundamental.
It's a necessity.
And when I first met my wife.
I knew she would be the lady
I wanted to have a family with.
And by the way. she can't cook.
(ALL LAUGH)
But one thing she does.
she makes that tomato sauce
perfectly.
to the point where she actually
does the best one.
It's not just a recipe.
The smile. the warmth. love.
before all. passed on
by the food.
This is the baton.
That's the relay.
It's about passing on.
For today's challenge.
we want you to share with us
your family food tradition.
We want you to bring us a dish
that represents you
and your family.
We're giving you 75 minutes
with full access to the pantry.
and the garden is open.
Sadly. the least impressive dish
will send its maker home.
Good luck to you all.
We cannot wait to
taste your food traditions.
Your 75 minutes starts now.
(CHEERING)
(EXCLAMATIONS. LAUGHTER)
Today's challenge.
it's pulling on the memories
and trying to channel
your family traditions
into a plate of food.
And. I mean. why do we cook?
For love. for family.
for sharing.
So. I'm thinking about
the things we do regularly.
like gingerbread houses
for Christmas.
and feasts with our friends.
And my mind's going in
20 different directions.
So. today's challenge.
family traditions.
It's a very open brief.
which I think allows them
to really cook with emotion.
but that could also
be their downfall.
Sometimes their emotions can
get the better of them.
and they can mistake the dish
being amazing
when it's possibly the memory.
So. they have to learn
to wrangle that
and still deliver a beautiful
MasterChef-worthy dish.
Food. for me. is always about
connection.
So. today it doesn't matter
what they cook.
but I want to feel
connected to them.
It has to be delicious.
but I also just want to feel
drawn in and understand them
and their family.
where they've come from.
and why it's so special to them.
And I just hope that our
contestants can take that memory
and take that dish
and then elevate it.
That's what they need to do
to stay in the competition.
Mm.
MAN: Power walk. Lydia.
Power walk.
LYDIA: Power walk.
What are you making?
Chicken ball avgolemono soup.
Oh. yes! Now we're talking.
It's a chicken stock amped up
with avgo - egg -
and lemones.
So. avgolemono - egg lemon soup.
It's a very Greek soup.
The second someone has
the sniffles.
it's chicken stock's going on
and this soup is being made.
You have balls of
chicken and rice.
As they cook. the rice
sort of gets all brothy
in the soup and
thickens up the soup.
So. it makes it very nourishing.
It just represents my family.
and they love it.
The soup is simple. but
I am going to elevate it
by being very generous
with those fresh herbs.
little bits of haloumi
in the chicken balls.
And then. of course. who doesn't
like crispy chicken skin?
I'm going to get the broth on
straightaway
and have that simmering
literally for
the entire 75 minutes.
Oh!
Wow! Hello!
ALYONA: My mum and my sister
are still in Estonia.
and my grandmother
is still in Russia.
I haven't been home
for three years.
I want to make sure
I cook something
that truly means
something to me.
For most of my childhood.
I would spend summers
with my grandparents in Russia.
My grandmas would cook
so much food.
I would go in the beginning
of summer really tiny.
and I would come back
a little chubby kid.
and my mum was like. "Oh. my
gosh. what happened to you?"
My mum didn't really
cook that much.
but what I remember
is every birthday.
every celebration.
she would whip up a cake.
So. I'm gonna make
my Russian honey cake.
It is with my own little twist.
Like. so. I put a little
bit of lemon myrtle in it.
and I put some macadamia nuts.
as well.
I have to cook the layers
as soon as possible.
After that.
I'll need to cool it.
because if I construct the cake
while the layers are still hot.
my whole cake is just
going to collapse.
And I don't want that to happen
because. for me.
what's important is
that beautiful layer effect.
That's exciting!
Flavour Town.
population - Olaolu.
Sorry. I won't distract you.
No. no. it's great. I love it.
Oh. really?
Thank you. yeah.
Alright. we'll stand here all...
I'm just. like. locked in.
but I'm hearing it all.
Yeah. We're here to
support you
and encourage you
on your journey to success.
Thank you.
Today. I'm making
a spiced plantain cake
with toasted peanuts.
Which represents my
family traditions
because it reminds me of
growing up in Lagos.
There's a Nigerian street food
called boli and peanuts.
and basically it's
a roasted plantain
that you have with peanuts
just as a little snack.
And. so. when I was young.
every now and then.
we'd get a chance to
have street food
and have the peanuts
and the boli.
and it was just this mix of.
like. sweet and savoury
and crunchy and starchy
and soft.
I have really fond memories
of it.
so I've turned that into the
inspiration for a dessert today.
I love this flavour.
but turning it into a cake
is definitely a risk.
So. I've got some warm spices.
I've got nutmeg and ginger
and cardamom.
Now. this is
an elimination cook.
Chances of staying or going can
hinge on the smallest details.
So. I'm trying to figure out
how I might elevate the dish.
Just a touch to
accent the plantain.
Because I wanted this cake to be
the best it can be.
Yoo!
Come on. Olaolu!
Make sure we can taste
that family tradition!
You've only got one hour to go!
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT
AND CHEER)
I'm really excited
for this challenge.
My eye went straight to
this photo
of Poh with her mum
and a birthday cake.
It reminded me of birthday
parties at my house.
So. today. I'm making an
apple-and-cinnamon entremet.
These are my pistachio-
and-white-chocolate spheres.
My strengths in the kitchen
are definitely desserts.
I love making cakes. cookies.
tarts. entremets.
I think the thing I love most
about cooking desserts
is there's so much room
for creativity
and all the different ways
you can make it look pretty
and eye-catching and beautiful.
My dream is to have my
own patisserie one day.
where I can surprise people with
unique flavour combinations
through sweets
that they already know and love.
ANDY AND SOFIA: Hey. Bella.
Hey.
OK. I can see you're
pretty locked in.
so I'm gonna keep
this very short.
Thank you.
What are you cooking?
I'm cooking a spiced apple
entremet for you guys today.
It's a birthday cake
I like to make my family.
And I've never pulled it off
in 75 minutes.
but I figured today
is the day to try
if I want to keep my spot
in this competition.
What are we getting layer-wise
in the entremet?
It's a white chocolate
mascarpone mousse
with an apple jelly
and a Breton shortbread
that has some spiced apples
sitting on top.
Right. So. shortbread
on the bottom?
Yeah.
Mousse.
Mousse. a little jelly.
And then gel on the inside?
Yeah. And the mirror glaze.
Mirror glaze. as well.
Amazing.
If I can pull it off.
Wow. You are pushing it.
What's it going to look like?
Mould-wise?
Just. like. a little domey...
Yeah. great.
Oh. you're going that big!
It's a cake-sized entremet.
Wow.
I think so.
In 75 minutes.
Hey. it is family.
You are under the pump.
Yep.
You need to set yourself
some little goals
in when you need to
get things done.
Yeah.
And try and keep on time.
BOTH: Good luck. Bella.
Thank you.
My plan for this cook
is to work
faster than humanly possible
if I'm going to get this
entremet done in 75 minutes.
So. I need to get my mousse
in the blast freezer
as soon as possible.
MAN: Nice work. Bella.
ALITA: Nice. Bella!
Come on!
Wow. That is. um. that's a lot.
A lot.
Not only do you have to
make the element.
but then you have to construct
it. freeze it. get it out.
The timing.
Do another layer.
Construct it. freeze it.
get it out.
Like. there's a lot of things
that if you don't
hit your timings.
it can really just snowball.
It's a crazy amount of steps.
given where she's at.
for less than an hour.
Yeah.
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT)
Dish of the day!
MAN: Come on. Bell! Let's go!
I love seeing photos of people
when they're kids.
Look at that guy there.
What happened to him?
Yeah.
He grew some teeth.
That's when I was cute
and innocent.
And then everything went
downhill from there.
I reckon that looks like
a mischief maker.
Nah. I was actually
pretty sensible about that.
believe it or not. yeah.
So. things got worse?
Ho!
(ALL LAUGH)
The day after.
WOMAN: Looking good. Hannah.
Thank you.
I feel like being a mum
of four kids
and lots of dynamics going on
in the house.
I've definitely been in a few
pressure-cooker situations
in my life. so maybe
that's training
for what I'm doing today.
SOFIA: Hey. Hannah.
Hello.
How are you?
What's your family tradition?
My family tradition.
when I got married
and left home. I was 18.
Wow.
And our family's really close.
so we started doing
a Monday night dinner.
We would come together.
Mum would cook a roast.
and we'd always have
a good dessert.
Like. a pav or
a sticky date pudding.
the classic Australian family.
And that is... that is
the memory that
I. like. pulled in on today.
Love that.
So. what are you cooking?
So. I'm cooking you
a sticky date pudding.
It's one of those dishes
that we've all had
heaps of over our time.
So. I think you need to create
one of the best sticky dates...
It's so true.
.. we've ever had.
Yeah. No pressure. guys.
No pressure.
I'm really excited to see
how your version
is better than the original.
Yes.
Good stuff. Hannah.
Good luck.
Thank you.
I'm definitely feeling
the pressure today.
So. I want to kind of get
a couple more elements on.
The way I'm gonna try and
elevate the sticky date pudding
and make it stand out
is to do a really awesome
ginger ice-cream
and some orange
butterscotch sauce.
GRACE: Oh. what's Pat doing?
WOMAN 2: Pat's got the prawns!
Prawns!
Seafood. seafood.
PAT: Andy's photos there.
fishing at the beach.
takes me back to
family holidays.
Every year. we used to go
holidaying at the coast.
Throw in the fishing line.
catch some flathead.
There was also always
a big pile of prawns
in the middle of the table.
You only got to eat
what you could peel.
so. you know. the quicker you
peel. the more prawns you got.
I actually now live in
the area we used to holiday
as kids in...
.. and now I'm making
amazing memories
with my little girl. Frankie.
Prawns play a big part
in our family.
and. so. today I just want
to really celebrate prawns.
My absolute favourite.
and a lot of my family's.
is a prawn bisque.
It's just such an
essence-of-prawn dish.
and. yeah. we really love it.
I'm just going to do some nice
garnishes within the soup
that will complement
that prawny flavour.
The butter poached prawn.
a smoked mussel.
fondant potatoes. and
some roasted fennel. as well.
I'm definitely fighting
super hard to stay here today.
I'm going into my black-apron
mode and blocking everything out
and just getting in the zone
to smash out a great dish.
I'm a bit nervous serving
a bisque to a Frenchman.
but. you know.
food doesn't judge.
so let's just make sure
it's great-tasting
and hopefully he loves it.
Give it everything you've got!
You have 45 minutes to go!
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT
AND CHEER)
MAN: Come on. Bell! Let's go.
BELLA: I still have so much
to do for my entremet.
This time pressure is
really getting to me.
How are you feeling. Bella?
Nup.
She's in her zone.
My mousse is now setting
in the freezer.
and it's time to make
the apple jelly.
I combine some apple puree
with a bit of sugar
and gelatine.
Did she just put
more gelatine in?
Yeah.
Oh. she's adding more gelatine.
She's more gelatine.
Oh.
I need to motor if I'm going
to get this entremet done.
My apple jelly is now
setting in the freezer.
and then it's time to make
the Breton shortbread.
I need to run to the pantry.
My mind is getting really
scattered at this point.
but I am still focused
on this end goal
and just have to keep putting
one foot in front of the other.
WOMAN: How's it tasting. Lyds.
Happy?
Yeah. good.
I'm tasting my avgolemono soup.
It's getting quite flavourful.
It has a good amount of depth
for such a short period of time.
But I really need to get
these chicken balls on.
The chicken balls
are the minced meat.
lots of parsley. dill.
lemon zest.
salt. pepper and rice.
And then they're poached
in the soup.
Lydia. tell us.
what are you doing?
I'm making an avgolemono
chicken ball soup.
Avgolemono is. like. one of
my favourite soups.
I make it out of minced chicken
balls with some rice in it.
and dill and lemon and parsley.
So. are you going to introduce
the rice into your soup?
The rice will be raw
in the mince balls
and then cooked in the broth.
You're not worried about
the rice to be cooked on time?
No.
I've cooked this soup
a lot of times. so...
OK. Good luck. yeah?
Good luck. Lydia.
Thank you.
Good luck.
The rice is meant to be cooked
in these chicken balls.
but it's not yet.
Um... but it will be.
ALYONA: I take the honey cake
out of the oven...
.. and it's perfect.
GRACE: Nice. Alyona!
That looks awesome!
I feel really focused.
It's. like. I feel everything
around me has just disappeared
and I'm the only person
in this kitchen.
The other element that I need to
nail is the cream.
While my layers are
cooling in the fridge.
I need to make the cream
with some sour cream
and lemon myrtle through it
to get that native
Australian twist.
This cake is really me.
WOMAN: Look at this guy go.
MAN: Flash me that cheeky smile.
(ALL LAUGH AND CHEER)
And my spiced plantain cake
comes out of the oven
and it smells great.
WOMAN: Beautiful. Olaolu.
WOMAN 2: Gorgeous. Olaolu.
I'm worried about doing a cake
for an elimination cook.
so I'm going to
elevate this dish
while also sticking true to
the heritage of the dish.
I'm hoping that the judges see
something that they recognise.
but then. when they eat it.
are very surprised by
what they're experiencing.
The spiced plantain cake
is quite sweet...
WOMAN: Go. Olaolu. Yum.
..so I'm going to use
lime syrup as a bit of a soak
to cut through
some of the sweetness.
Ooh! Salty cream.
WOMAN 2: Salty!
I am also making a kind of
salted Chantilly
because the salt can help.
you know. balance out
the sweetness.
This dish has a lot
of meaning to me.
Um. it was a treat
when I was younger.
and to be able to re-create it.
but in my own spin.
I think that's the ingredients
for being safe today.
Make it delicious!
30 minutes to go!
(ALL CHEER. SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT)
MAN: Keep pushing!
Hannah. what kind of caramel
do you want?
It's just like
a butterscotch caramel.
but with orange in it.
Love it.
Nothing like an experiment
in an elimination. Han.
Going bold. girl. I love it.
I'm feeling pretty relaxed
at this point
because I'm ahead of my cook.
My sticky date pudding's
in the oven.
crumb's in the oven.
My ginger ice-cream is done.
Hannah. how's it looking?
Have you tasted it?
Yeah. I'm really happy with it.
Yeah. great.
Gingery.
Beautiful.
And I know I've got time
up my sleeve right now.
which doesn't happen a lot
in this kitchen.
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE:
Hannah. how are you?
Oh. yes. Good. thank you.
Hi. Hannah.
Ooh! What are you doing?
I'm going to do
a sticky date pudding
with an orange caramel.
with a ginger ice-cream
and a ginger crumb.
I need to let you know...
Yes.
.. back in the UK. the
first thing I start doing
is to drive up to
Whitehaven Caramel. up north.
to buy those sticky toffee
pudding.
Oh. stop it.
And I mean that.
You're talking 300 miles. yeah?
So. I think I've got an enormous
amount of expectation on yours.
OK.
Did you manage to put a bit of
salt into your cake?
Ooh.
Did I salt it? Hmm. stop it.
Anyway. we see.
The doubt is starting to
creep in a little bit.
HANNAH: I'm feeling
really nervous.
Look. those ones are working.
and they're cooking
and they're fine.
but I'm a little bit concerned
I didn't mix them well enough.
If the sticky date pudding isn't
good. I'm going to go home.
So. I'm going to
make another one.
My ice cream's done. My caramel
needs a little bit of work.
I don't want this to end now.
It's all hustle from here!
Just 15 minutes to go!
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT.
APPLAUD)
WOMAN: You've got this. Bella.
You've got this. girl.
you've got this.
BELLA: My entremet is still
setting in the blast freezer.
It's almost. Almost.
Almost there.
It's almost set. but it
definitely needs some more time.
How's your timing going?
OK.
I'm still a bit worried about
the set of the entremet. but...
Is it... obviously. in there?
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
OK. cool.
I'm gonna keep it closed.
We're getting towards
the end of the cook.
and I have a lot to do.
My Breton shortbread base
with cinnamon apples
is in the oven cooking.
and I just realise
I need to make my mirror glaze.
If I just keep moving.
I do have a chance of
getting this on the plate.
WOMAN: Oh. that smoker.
MAN: Yeah. Patty. Yoo!
PAT: A lot of the elements
for my prawn bisque
are starting to be finished.
The mussels and prawns
are all but done.
Potatoes and fennel are done.
WOMAN: Oh. wow. Pat.
That's perfect.
Such good colour.
But the star of the show
is still in the pot
and not finished.
so I just really need to focus
all my energy into the bisque.
And I'm really just adjusting
the salt and the lemon
until I'm just absolutely
stoked with the flavour.
I love the taste of the dish.
but I just want it to be
a bit more intense.
so. hopefully. I can
get that flavour down
and get the seasoning perfect.
get these prawns cooked
perfectly.
and. yeah. we'll be
on the money.
I'm feeling good. I enjoy making
this cake. and so I feel good.
I just want to make sure
I keep moving fast.
For my spiced plantain cake.
I have a salted Chantilly done.
the cake with the lime
syrup cooling.
But this is an elimination cook
and the stakes are really high.
I'm like. "Mate. step it up."
I decide to make a ginger
custard to top it all off.
Yoo! Come on. Olaolu!
ANNABEL: Let's go. buddy.
Too easy for you. brother.
And the custard can be
very ginger forward
and a little bit fiery.
so when you have a bite.
you have a bit of extra.
like. oomph.
WOMAN: Oh. wow. Look at that.
MAN: Oh. that was quick.
Oh. is this a honey cake?
Yeah.
Oh. I love this.
That looks so good.
Nice. Alyona.
I am so proud of what
I see in front of me...
Come on. Alyona.
.. because I have never
made this cake
in such a short period of time.
You need a turntable. girl!
Normally. I serve it
with fresh raspberries.
but maybe just fresh raspberries
are not going to be enough.
So. I think I'm gonna make
this raspberry sauce.
That's also gonna look really
beautiful on the plate
and complement the cake.
WOMAN: Come on. Lydia!
Use those muscles. lady.
It's time to 'avgolemono'
the soup.
which is the whisking of the
eggs and lemon juice together.
The eggs is to
thicken your soup?
Yeah. I'm tempering them
with lemon juice.
I'm going to temper them
by adding the hot broth.
and that will bring up
the temperature of the egg
so it doesn't split.
Ooh!
The eggs thicken the soup.
and the lemon gives it
acidity and yumminess.
I check out the chicken skin.
they look great.
Pulling them out.
And I'm going to lightly
pan-fry the haloumi.
so as the judges are eating
the soup. every now and then.
they might get
a little mouthful of
salty haloumi goodness.
Don't get left behind!
Ten minutes to go!
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT)
WOMAN: Make sure
it's plated. guys.
(TRAY CLATTERS)
Sorry. that's hot.
The adrenaline is
running through my body.
I don't think I've taken
a breath for the past hour.
It's the moment of truth.
I need to unmould this entremet.
WOMAN: Yes. yes. It's coming.
WOMAN 2: It's coming. Bella.
Gentle. gentle. No.
That's OK. You've got more time.
My entremet should pop out
of the mould easily.
I'm really worried.
MAN: Careful. Bella.
Hot knife?
I don't know.
Can I cut this mould?
Do what you need to do. girl.
(ALL SHOUT)
If I don't get this out.
I have nothing to put
on the plate today.
You've got it. Bella.
MAN: Just tell the judges
not to look.
I don't know about this.
Can I cut this mould?
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT)
WOMAN: Do what you need to do.
girl.
MAN: Just tell the judges
not to look.
If I don't get this out...
..I have nothing to put on
the plate today.
That's it. Bella! Come on!
This is do or die.
At least the judges will be able
to taste something.
Finish strong!
Three minutes to go!
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT.
APPLAUD)
MAN: Keep pushing! Keep pushing!
HANNAH: I managed to get my
second pudding out of the oven.
but this sauce is just
not quite hitting the mark.
There's something
not right with it.
I'm really worried. Is it
the best pudding in the world?
And is this sauce
actually going to work?
MAN: Keep going. keep going.
keep going.
LYDIA: If this bowl
of avgolemono soup
doesn't represent
family tradition for me.
I don't know what does.
Is the rice cooked? 100%.
30 seconds to go!
ANDY: 30 seconds!
(ALL SHOUT ENCOURAGEMENT)
BELLA: I'm not happy with this.
This is not how I'd be
presenting it at home.
But hopefully the inside
will have some pretty layers
and flavours.
ALL: 10. 9. 8.
7. 6. 5.
4. 3. 2. 1.
ANDY: That's it. everybody!
(CHEERING. SHOUTING)
LYDIA: Oh. my God.
Lydia. what is the dish?
Chicken ball avgolemono soup.
It's essentially
an egg and lemon broth.
Lydia. why the big smile?
Very proud to give you
this dish
because it is a dish that you
cook for your loved ones.
and I love that I'm
doing that for you.
Oh. I thought you were gonna say
you love us.
I do love you all.
I still have to pinch myself
to remind myself where I am.
And we're going to taste a dish.
You obviously chicken skin
at your own...
Oh. nice.
.. your own crunchy leisure.
Yeah.
I love crunchy leisure.
OK. Thank you very much.
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE: Fabulous.
Thanks. Lydia.
Please enjoy it.
Thank you.
Well done. Lydia.
Whoa. that looks so cool.
ANDY: So inviting.
I want it to be good.
I want it to be mine.
I'm gonna eat it all.
Ah!
(GROANS)
(LAUGHS)
This is unbelievable.
Mmm.
Oh. my God.
That woman is unbelievable.
Jean-Christophe. what's on
the side of the jug?
Do you know when you
eat something good
and your brain just
is not even thinking?
You're just consuming
and experiencing?
Mm.
I will remember this and crave
it for the rest of my life.
It is just so delicious.
That broth is just packed
full of chicken-ness.
Chickeny-ness. and lemony-ness.
Everything that she said
she wanted it to be is there.
So. those chicken balls.
like. they just fall apart
in your mouth.
It's a bowl-slurpingly
delicious chicken soup.
She's used quite a lot of pepper
in there. as well.
so you get this beautiful
warming hug of spice
at the back of your palate.
And then adding in that haloumi.
it's. you know. it's this salty.
squeaky fun time with
all those little cubes in there.
Just having the pleasure
to enjoy this wonderful soup.
we feel like a family in a way.
Yeah.
Uh-huh?
What was the most
pleasurable part
is when she introduced the egg
as tempered the broth
just at the last minute.
at the right temperature.
I would say that is in the
top five tastiest things
I've had this year. for sure.
Yeah. absolutely.
That is just so. so. so
silky and beautiful.
Like. I feel so privileged
to eat that.
Same. (SIGHS)
I think she's safe.
What do you reckon?
Oh. yeah. I reckon
she's alright.
BELLA: I know I've fallen short
in the way my dish
looks today...
.. but hopefully the textures
and flavours will be enough
to save me today.
Hi. Bella.
Hello. Bella.
SOFIA: Hi. Bella.
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE: Hello. Bella.
BELLA: Today I've made you my
apple-and-cinnamon entremet.
So. there's a Breton shortbread
with some cinnamon apples.
a white chocolate
and mascarpone mousse.
and an apple jelly
and a mirror glaze.
POH: Thank you.
ANDY: Thanks. Bella.
Thank you.
I can really see the vision.
but it's a little wonky. huh?
Yeah. particularly because
we know how good
and how precise she can be.
There's definitely
defined layers there.
OK.
I actually really like
the flavours.
I think she's done a really good
job of balancing the sweetness.
Having said that. I do feel like
when I was cutting through
that gel layer.
it's heavily set.
It was an interesting choice.
and I feel like it's only
a choice that she put in there
because she was doing
an entremet.
Because it doesn't
taste amazing.
and it definitely doesn't have
an awesome texture either.
We've seen hundreds of entremets
in this kitchen.
They're meant to look flawless.
Exactly.
Yeah. and we didn't get that.
unfortunately.
You look at her mousse.
and it's quite dense.
it's a bit gluggy.
There's no aeration in it.
I think it's a shame. because
I absolutely adore this girl.
She's super talented.
she's so driven.
I really respect her.
I'm trying to think
very carefully
what will be my verdict.
Hello.
Hi.
Alyona. What have you made?
I made my celebration cake.
It's inspired from
Russian honey cake.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Let's check out those layers.
Oh!
Oh. it looks very good.
Whoa!
I can still taste the honey.
It's really fragrant. still.
so it's really subtle
and very beautifully managed.
I love how it looks.
I love the colours.
I think those layers
are stunning.
I think she's done
a really good job.
Hello. Pat.
I've made a prawn bisque
with a butter-poached prawn.
some lightly smoked mussels.
roasted fennel.
and fondant potatoes.
This is very inviting.
It is just amazing.
Just smell it. The power of
the shells of the prawns.
The mussels. The stock has
been done very well.
I think it's seasoned perfectly.
ANDY: Nailed the brief. nailed
the conception of the dish.
nailed the execution of
the dish.
OLAOLU: It's a big risk
by doing a cake
for an elimination cook.
because cakes are
generally simple.
But I'm hoping that the fact
that I have elevated it
in terms of really swaying
the balance of the dish
is enough to keep me safe
from being eliminated.
ANDY: Olaolu.
Hello.
Hey. Olaolu.
Mmm!
I've made a plantain cake
with some peanuts.
It's inspired by
a Nigerian street food dish -
boli and peanuts.
How old were you when you were
smashing plantains
and salted peanuts?
I don't remember not doing it.
Oh. really?
Probably from five. six. seven.
Oh. wow.
You know. it's kind of just
roasting on the fire
on the side of the street.
and you get it hot.
So. it's a memory
that you've then channelled
to basically create something.
Yeah. For me. cooking is
a lot about creativity.
And. so. well. Nigerians
don't really eat dessert.
So. and I have
a big sweet tooth.
so I wanted to kind of
turn that into a dessert.
And that's how this came about.
We'll taste now. Thanks. mate.
Good luck. Olaolu.
What do you think. guys?
It's pretty cute.
I think it looks nice.
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE: Yeah. it is.
Yeah.
Looks pretty good.
Nice.
Very pleased.
I absolutely love this.
It's good. huh?
I was really concerned that
the cake was way too simple.
but the texture
is just impeccable.
I think the cake is
absolutely epic.
It's lovely. It's gentle.
And it has a bit of intensity
from the spice.
It's just perfect.
This cake. to me. is like
carrot cake and banana bread
met at Christmas
and had an overachieving child.
(LAUGHS)
It has that beautiful
spice mix through it.
and then you get these little
sweet. tangy pockets
of that lime syrup.
Also. that Chantilly.
It's so light and fluffy.
and salted so perfectly.
Plus the crunch
and that extra bit of salt
from those quite heavily
toasted peanuts.
It's a really delicious
flavour combination.
This is hard to do.
The fact that he can
really sit there
and take this memory
and distil it into
a very simple cake and anglaise.
but then have the smarts to go.
"I'm gonna do this.
this and this to it
"to really. really bring it back
to a MasterChef-worthy palate."
Dynamite. mate. Dynamite.
I'm super stoked for him.
I think we should be waiting
for a long run with him.
HANNAH: The end of this cook
was a blur.
Hannah.
Hi. Hannah.
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE: How are you?
Hello.
I'm not feeling super confident
in my dish.
but I'm hoping it's good enough
to get me through.
Hello.
Hi. Hannah.
How are you?
I've made you a sticky date
pudding
with a ginger crumb
and a ginger ice-cream.
and an orange butterscotch
sauce.
I'm troubled.
You're troubled?
Mm.
What are you troubled with?
The pudding itself is lovely.
It's really well cooked.
it's nice and moist.
but the butterscotch
is not a butterscotch.
She's cooked her orange juice
down so much
that it's got this kind
of marmaladey flavour.
It's like an emulsion butter.
Oh. yeah.
It's nothing toffee.
I just didn't use the sauce.
and I used the ice-cream.
which was very ginger forward.
which I really enjoyed.
I love the ice-cream. I
absolutely adore the ice-cream.
It is the best thing
on that plate for me.
It is so delicious.
But do you think the ice-cream
is good enough to save her?
Yeah. I don't know.
Today was an
emotional challenge.
You shared your family
traditions with us.
so we know these dishes.
they were cherished memories
on the plate.
Thank you for sharing that
with us. Well done.
A big effort from everybody.
But there was one dish
that made us totally feel
like one big happy family.
And that belonged to you. Lydia!
(CHEERING)
Lydia. that avgolemono was like
the biggest hug on a cold day.
Literally. every single one
of us was slurping
straight out of the bowl
and we could not speak.
We were just diving into
the lemony chickeny goodness.
It was really. really
spectacular.
Thank you.
Congratulations...
Thank you. they were...
..you are safe.
However. this is an elimination
and. sadly. someone will be
going home today.
SOFIA: There were two dishes
that missed the mark.
If I call your name.
please step forward.
Bella...
.. and Hannah.
Hannah. your sauce
was unpleasant.
OK. Yeah.
Bella.
while we really admire
your ambition.
time got the better of you.
There were flaws in
most of your elements.
I'm so sorry...
.. but we have to say goodbye...
.. Bella.
Bella. we absolutely loved
having you
as part of
the MasterChef family.
Your cooking is
well beyond your years.
What is it about this experience
that will stay with you
the most?
Um... cooking with
these amazing bunch
of people has just been
so inspiring.
Um. yeah. being able to. like.
bounce ideas off everyone
and just be with people
that share that same passion.
Um. yeah. it's something that
I can't take for granted.
Um. and I've enjoyed
every moment.
Bella. I just wanted to say.
your ambition. your tenacity.
your grit. your determination.
your ability to just push
through under extreme pressure.
you are one of
a handful of people
that have those attributes
in absolute spades.
That means a lot.
Bella. I'm so broken-hearted
for you right now.
You're so young and you have
so much talent.
I know you're going to
be a superstar.
and I want you to promise me
that you're not going to
let this moment define you.
It's what you actually do
after this. yeah?
Yeah. Yeah.
Come and give us a hug.
I've learned so much
from this experience.
and I am proud of the way
that I've showed up every day
in this competition
and pushed myself.
You are a younger version
of Mary Berry.
(LAUGHS)
All the best to you.
Don't give up.
Poh made me promise that
this is only the beginning.
and I'm going to stick to
that promise
because I want to share the food
I love with so many people.
and I'm going to find a way
to do that.
Give it up for Bella. everybody!
(CHEERING)
ANNOUNCER: Next week on
MasterChef Australia...
Please give it up
for Catherine Zhang!
Victoria Minell!
Khanh Ong!
..it's viral wonders week.
Crazy.
Their content is
absolutely awesome.
And with their first
service challenge...
(ALL CHEER)
Never really cooked
for a lot of people before.
.. and a surprise immunity pin
on the line...
(CHEERING)
.. they're absolutely clamouring
to create something
stratospheric.
Are we going viral here?
Yes.
POH: I flippin' love this dish
so much.
This is. like.
competition-winning-worthy
stuff.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm